              Goddess symbols font, by AnonMoos

This "dingbat" font contains personal interpretations of some Goddess
and quasi-goddess symbols (not only relatively traditional symbols,
but also some new variations and proposals).  The symbols must be in a
fairly abstract visual form due to the limitations of standard font
formats (which only allow for specifying shapes in an undetermined
foreground color and an undetermined background color).  The font code
is declared to be licensed with the SIL Open Font License, while the
abstract symbol shapes are in the public domain.  (The text of the
license is embedded in the TrueType font file.)  The following files
are distributed with my version of the font:

  GoddessSymbols.txt -- this basic documentation file
  GoddessSymbols.rtf -- Full documentation in RTF format (won't
                       display correctly unless font is installed)

  GDSSY___.PFB -- Main file for the Type 1 PostScript version of font
  GDSSY___.PFM -- Type 1 metrics file for Windows
  GDSSY___.AFM -- Type 1 metrics file for Unix/Linux

  GoddessSymbols.ttf -- File for Truetype version of this font

  GoddessSymbols.sfd - FontForge source file containing cubic Bezier
                       curve data used to generate Truetype file

Install the chosen version of the font using the standard procedures
under your operating system.  In MS Windows, it is often easiest to
copy the TrueType file into the system Fonts folder (accessible under
the "Settings" or "Control Panel" options in the Start menu).

To install the font under Unix/Linux X, copy either the TTF file or
the pair of AFM file plus PFB file into an appropriate font directory,
and make sure that the font directory's configuration file includes a
line appropriately similar to one of these two (depending on which
font format you're choosing to install):

gdssy___.pfb -misc-GoddessSymbols-medium-r-normal--0-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1
GoddessSymbols.ttf -misc-GoddessSymbols-medium-r-normal--0-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1

The precise details, and whether some of these steps can be automated,
depend on the exact configuration of the software (see the "X" system
documentation for your computer).

Symbols in this font include triple spirals, triple moon,
Cretan-inspired (labrys, labyrinth, Minoan snake priestess/goddess),
Robert Graves inspired ("White Goddess"/"Seven Days in New Crete"),
spiral goddess, and others.

For individual characters and their meanings, see the RTF full
documentation file.

