{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 GoddessSymbols;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\lang1033\b\f0\fs40 Goddess symbols font, by AnonMoos\b0\fs36\par
\pard\par
This \ldblquote dingbat\rdblquote  font contains personal interpretations of some Goddess and quasi-goddess symbols (not only some relatively traditional symbols, but also new variations and proposals, and a number of quasi-decorative geometric designs).  The symbols must be in a fairly abstract visual form due to the limitations of standard font formats (which only allow for specifying shapes in an undetermined foreground color and an undetermined background color).  The font code is declared to be licensed with the SIL Open Font License, while the abstract symbol shapes are in the public domain.  The following files are distributed with my version of the font:\par
\par
\pard\li202\f1\fs32 GoddessSymbols.txt \f0\fs36 - Basic plaintext documentation\par
\f1\fs32 GoddessSymbols.rtf \f0\fs36 - this RTF file (won't display correctly unless font is installed)\par
\f1\fs32 GDSSY___.PFB \f0\fs36 - Main file for the Type 1 PostScript version of this font\par
\f1\fs32 GDSSY___.PFM \f0\fs36 - Type 1 metrics file for Windows\par
\f1\fs32 GDSSY___.AFM \f0\fs36 - Type 1 metrics file for Unix/Linux\par
\f1\fs32 GoddessSymbols.ttf \f0\fs36 - File for Truetype version of this font\par
\f1\fs32 GoddessSymbols.sfd \f0\fs36 - FontForge source file containing the raw cubic Bezier curve data used to generate the Truetype version of the font\par
\pard\par
Install the chosen version of the font (either Type 1 or TrueType) using the standard procedures under your operating system.  For basic installation hints, see the plain text documentation file.\par
\par
\pard\qc\b Font history:\b0\par
\pard\fs24\par
\pard\fi720\b\fs34 Version 1.1\b0\fs36  - First non-preliminary font release.  Changes among the upper-case characters with respect to version 1.0:  Two Minoan-based symbols were added at characters \f1 H\f0  and \f1 P\f0 , while the former placeholder at both \f1 H\f0  and \f1 P\f0  was moved to \f1 h\f0 , and characters \f1 D\f0  and \f1 Q\f0  were slightly tweaked.  The few non-upper-case characters in version 1.0 were freely rearranged, and more than 80 new symbol characters were added to the font.\par
\pard\par
\pard\qc\b Explanations of font symbols:\b0\fs40\par
\pard\fs24\par
\fs36 Symbols are assigned to all basic ASCII graphic characters (i.e. upper- and lower-case letters of the basic Latin alphabet, and accompanying numerical digit and punctuation characters), and over 20 non-ASCII diacritic letters.  The following are explanations of the main included symbols:\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Main modern Triple Goddess symbol:\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs88 A\f1\fs38  A\f0\fs36 : Waxing crescent / Full moon / Waning crescent Triple Goddess symbol (filled).  Proper colors are white-red-black (left to right), expressing the goddess under the threefold aspects of Maiden, Mother, and Crone, or \ldblquote the white goddess of birth and growth, the red goddess of love and battle, the black goddess of death and divination\rdblquote  - Robert Graves, \i The White Goddess\i0 .  (This probably originated as an adaptation of the Egyptian Hathor headdress - see below - to Graves' lunar symbolism.)\par
\f3\fs90 B\f1\fs38  B\f0\fs36 : Waxing crescent / Full moon / Waning crescent Triple Goddess symbol (outlined).\par
\f3\fs88 C\f1\fs38  C\f0\fs36 : Waxing crescent / Full moon / Waning crescent Triple Goddess symbol (filled, with double crescent instead of solid disk - since a double crescent is occasionally used as a full-moon symbol distinct from a simple circular sun-disk, and because the geometrical figure of a \i vesica piscis\i0  inscribed within a circle can be a symbol of female sexuality).\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Some three-fold geometric symbols sometimes interpreted as Goddess symbols:\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs116 D\f1\fs38  D\f0\fs36 : Diana of Poitiers (Diane de Poitiers) interlaced triple crescent emblem.\par
\f3\fs144 d\f1\fs38  d\f0\fs36 : Outlined version of above symbol.\par
\f3\fs144 E\f1\fs38  E\f0\fs36 : Triple spiral emblem, based on an early symbol found in Newgrange Tomb, Ireland.  This version is composed of three double Archimedean spirals.\par
\f3\fs126 F\f1\fs38  F\f0\fs36 : Spiral triskelion, based on mathematical Archimedean spirals.  For a different, \ldblquote wheeled\rdblquote  triskelion of three three-fold spirals, see \f1 <\f0  below.  For a \ldblquote pentaskelion\rdblquote  of five five-fold spirals, see \f1 ;\f0  below.\par
\f3\fs144 e\f0\fs36  \f3\fs126 f\f1\fs38  e\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 f\f0\fs36 : Mirror-image versions of the above triple-spirals.\par
\f3\fs168 a\f1\fs38  a\f0\fs36 : Spiral triskelion with internal triangle.\par
\f3\fs144 Z\f1\fs38  Z\f0\fs36 : Triple-spiral labyrinth (allegorical of the sometimes long and winding path of courtship, among other possible meanings).  For simpler labyrinths, see the \ldblquote Cretan\rdblquote  section below.\par
\f3\fs144 G\f1\fs38  G\f0\fs36 : Three interlaced triangles, representing a multiplication of the Triple Goddess into three triads of goddesses.  (This design is found in a Hindu temple in Thiruvanmayur, South Chennai, India, associated with the goddess Tripurasundari.)  In a modern context, this is occasionally called the \ldblquote Star of the Muses\rdblquote .  No two triangles are directly linked, but collectively all three triangles are linked (similar in this respect to the famous Borromean rings).\par
\f3\fs152 b\f0\fs36  \f3\fs152 c\f0\fs36  \f3\fs168 g\f1\fs38  b\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 c\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 g\f0\fs36 : Variant forms of the three interlaced triangles (ornamentally modified to display more clearly at small sizes): quasi-arabesque, mirror-reversed quasi-arabesque, and outlined.  For another variant (curvy outlined), see character \f1 ]\f0  below.\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Cretan-influenced symbols (including labyrinths):\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs168 H\f1\fs38  H\f0\fs36 : Abstract version of the famous Minoan snake goddess/priestess statue.\par
\f3\fs116 M\f1\fs38  M\f0\fs36 : Labrys (a stylized version of the ancient Cretan double-headed axe).  In modern use, can symbolize lesbianism and/or matriarchy and/or neo-pagan Goddess worship.\par
\f3\fs144 i\f0\fs36  \f3\fs144 j\f1\fs38  i\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 j\f0\fs36 : A square form of the ancient \ldblquote Cretan\rdblquote  labyrinth, and a rounded  form with equal-width paths (made from 180\'b0 and 90\'b0 circular arcs and short straight line segments).\par
\f3\fs152 k\f1\fs38  k\f0\fs36 : A form of the ancient \ldblquote Cretan\rdblquote  labyrinth which fits in a circle.\par
\f3\fs144 l\f1\fs38  l\f0\fs36 : Quasi-circular labyrinth (intermediate between \f1 j\f0  and \f1 k\f0 ) .\par
\f3\fs136 m\f0\fs36  \f3\fs144 n\f0\fs36  \f3\fs144 o\f0\fs36  \f3\fs144 p\f1\fs38  m\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 n\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 o\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 p\f0\fs36 : Mirror-reversed variants of the above basic labyrinths.\par
\f3\fs144 0\f1\fs38  0\f0\fs36 : Diagram of the path through a square labyrinth.\par
\f3\fs144 1\f0\fs36  \f3\fs116 2\f1\fs38  1\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 2\f0\fs36 : A doubled labyrinth and  a \ldblquote half-labyrinth\rdblquote .\par
\f3\fs144 3\f0\fs36  \f3\fs160 4\f1\fs38  3\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 4\f0\fs36 : Versions of a labyrinth with a spiral center (\ldblquote Chakravyuha\rdblquote  or (\ldblquote Padmavyuha\rdblquote ).\par
\f3\fs144 5\f1\fs38  5\f0\fs36 : Radial form of basic \ldblquote Cretan\rdblquote  labyrinth, as found in some Native American cultures.  For another radial labyrinth, see character \f1\'e9\f0  below.\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Raised-arms Goddess symbols:\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs168 J\f1\fs38  J\f0\fs36 : Version of modern \ldblquote spiral goddess\rdblquote  symbol (based on ancient raised arms figurine).\par
\f3\fs168 K\f1\fs38  K\f0\fs36 : Variant with shorter vertical height.\par
\f3\fs144 h\f1\fs38  h\f0\fs36 : Simple skirted version of raised arms figure outline (used as a placeholder in the first uncompleted release of this font).\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Historical Goddess invocation (the earliest alphabetically-written word which can now be solidly decoded):\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs120 R\f1\fs38  R\f0\fs36 : The Northwest Semitic word LB`LT, as it appears in a number of inscriptions in the hieroglyphic-influenced Proto-Sinaitic consonantal alphabet (but with letter-forms which are somewhat cleaned-up and regularized from the original shapes rather crudely scratched into rock).  This word was pronounced something like \i La-Ba`lat\i0  (or perhaps \i La-Ba`lati\i0  with final case vowel), and meant \ldblquote For the Lady\rdblquote  (in historical context, a dedication to the goddess Hathor).  This is noteworthy as the oldest word in any surviving early alphabetic inscriptions (over 3,500 years old) which can now be read and understood with certainty.  Sometimes the first \ldblquote L\rdblquote  letter (representing a preposition meaning \ldblquote to, for\rdblquote ) was omitted, leaving just \i Ba`lat\i0  (or \i Ba`latu\i0  with nominative case vowel - this was the feminine form of the word \i Ba`l(u)\i0  \ldblquote lord, husband\rdblquote , which is a cross-language cognate of later Hebrew \i Ba`al\i0 ).  The squarish character is an adaptation of an ancient Egyptian hieroglyphic meaning \ldblquote house\rdblquote , while the oval character is from a hieroglyphic for \ldblquote eye\rdblquote .  These five characters are the ancestors of the modern Latin-alphabet letters \ldblquote L\rdblquote , \ldblquote B\rdblquote , \ldblquote O\rdblquote , \ldblquote L\rdblquote  again, and \ldblquote T\rdblquote .\par
\f3\fs120 S\f1\fs38  S\f0\fs36 : The Proto-Sinaitic word LB`LT \ldblquote For the Lady / Goddess\rdblquote  - an alternate form, written in the opposite direction (from right to left as shown here, but could also be from top to bottom if rotated counter-clockwise 90\'b0), and with different shapes of the \ldblquote house\rdblquote  and \ldblquote eye\rdblquote  letters.  Since the Proto-Sinaitic inscriptions are quite short (generally only a word or two each), and were probably scratched into rock over a number of decades in a community where Semitic-language literacy was very limited, and was used for very limited purposes, therefore many details of the writing-system were not standardized.\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Other historically-based signs (which do not fall into any of the categories above), which can be interpreted as Goddess symbols:\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs124 I\f1\fs38  I\f0\fs36 : Simplified version of the ancient eight-pointed star symbol of Ishtar/Inana/Inanna, Mesopotamian goddess of sexuality and battle (who could be considered roughly equivalent to the full moon aspect of the triple goddess, though this symbol itself represents the planet Venus as morning or evening star).\par
\f3\fs144 q\f1\fs38  q\f0\fs36 : Alternative simplified version of the star of Ishtar symbol (with enclosing circle and stroked rather than filled).\par
\f3\fs136 r\f1\fs38  r\f0\fs36 : An abstract stylized version of the Hathor headdress (High Priestess crown), consisting of a circular disc with a horn to each side.\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Other symbols influenced by the works of Robert Graves:\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs184 O\f1\fs38  O\f0\fs36 : Symbol for the quasi-matriarchal society described in the novel \i Seven Days in New Crete\i0  (or \i Watch the North-Wind Rise\i0 ) by Robert Graves: the Triple Goddess (Nimu\'eb, Mari, and Ana) above the twin rival demi-gods (the star-god of the first half of the year and the serpent-god of the second half of the year), which are above the people of New Crete (in their five social groups or \ldblquote estates\rdblquote , likened to the five fingers of a hand), which are above the clipped coin of Dobeis, the snapped sword of Pill, and the broken gear of Machna.\par
\par
\f3\fs168 P\f1\fs38  P\f0\fs36 : A variant of Minoan snake priestess attire worn by the queen (nymph of the seventh month) in \i Seven Days in New Crete\i0  / \i Watch the North-Wind Rise\i0 , with star held in right hand and a version of the Hathor head-dress.\par
\f3\fs126 s\f1\fs38  s\f0\fs36 : Stylized depiction of cross-cut apple, showing five-fold symmetry (mentioned as a symbol in \i Seven Days in New Crete\i0 ).\par
\f3\fs152 L\f1\fs38  L\f0\fs36 : Diagram of the lunar month divided into three nine- or ten-day periods (waxing, full, and waning), each of which is further divided into three sub-phases.\par
\f3\fs144 6\f0\fs36  \f3\fs144 7\f0\fs36  \f3\fs144 8\f1\fs38  6\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 7\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 8\f0\fs36 : Ogham arrangements (symbolizing calendars) from the \i White Goddess\i0 .  Left: Basic arrangement, considered to correspond to a calendar of 15 months, each month having 24 days.  Center and right: Arrangements with the \ldblquote Z\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Q\rdblquote  ogham letters rearranged, considered to correspond to a calendar of 13 months, each month having 28 days.\par
\f3\fs170 t\f1\fs38  t\f0\fs36 : Thirteen-pointed star intersecting with seven-pointed star, symbolizing 13-month calendar, each month consisting of four 7-day weeks.\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Some woman-power or matriarchy symbols:\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs126 N\f1\fs38  N\f0\fs36 : Woman-power symbol (this version derived from the \i toa267\i0  public domain Discordian font).\par
\f3\fs126 Q\f1\fs38  Q\f0\fs36 : Symbol of male worship of female, using \ldblquote planetary\rdblquote  signs.\par
\f3\fs168 u\f1\fs38  u\f0\fs36 : Symbol of worship of woman as goddess.\par
\f3\fs116 9\f1\fs38  9\f0\fs36 : Generic polyandry/matriarchy symbol, using \ldblquote planetary\rdblquote  signs.\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Some symbols of female sexuality / sexual authority:\f0\fs36\par
\f3\fs96 T\f1\fs38  T\f0\fs36 : Vulva symbol (stylized pubic triangle; this is the earliest archaic form of the Sumerian cuneiform character for \ldblquote woman\rdblquote  \b MUNUS\b0 , among other historical uses).\par
\f3\fs96 U\f1\fs38  U\f0\fs36 : Vulva symbol (pointed oval as seen on medieval \ldblquote sheela-na-gig\rdblquote  figures etc., this version with \i vesica piscis\i0  geometry).\par
\f3\fs96 V\f1\fs38  V\f0\fs36 : Variant of preceding, with enclosed vertical line.  \i Les f\'e9minaires, outre les cercles, les anneaux donnent pour symboles des vulves les triangles coup\'e9s d'une bissectrice les ovales les ellipses. On peut styliser les ovales ou les ellipses sous forme de losanges, ou bien sous forme de croissants de lune, c'est-\'e0-dire des ovales partag\'e9s en deux.\i0  - \ldblquote Les Gu\'e9rill\'e8res\rdblquote , Monique Wittig\par
\f3\fs108 W\f1\fs38  W\f0\fs36 : Intermediate between \f1 T\f0  and \f1 V\f0  (vulva symbol which is rounded at top and pointed at bottom, similar to signs found in prehistoric rock art, and some forms of Hindu \i yoni\i0  symbols).\par
\f3\fs144 w\f1\fs38  w\f0\fs36 : Variant of above.\par
\f3\fs144 X\f0\fs36  \f3\fs144 v\f1\fs38  X\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 v\f0\fs36 : Double pointed oval vulva symbol (the variant at right depicts the vulva simultaneously as pubic triangle and double oval).\par
\f3\fs126 Y\f1\fs38  Y\f0\fs36 : Heart vulva symbol (an illustration of the theory that the shape of the Western abstract \ldblquote heart\rdblquote  or \ldblquote love\rdblquote  symbol has been influenced by vulva symbolism).\par
\f3\fs144 x\f1\fs38  x\f0\fs36 : An abstract stylized representation of the vulva hand-gesture (sometimes also known as the \ldblquote Yoni mudra\rdblquote ), used particularly among some lesbians and feminist spirituality advocates.  Occasionally done with the thumbs below, but the version with the thumbs upwards (depicted here) has a stronger symbolic resemblance.  The American Sign Language sign for \ldblquote vagina\rdblquote  makes use of the same positioning of the hands.  This highly simplified silhouette-style depiction shows the thumbs and index fingers just as they are about to touch.  If they are forcefully pressed against each other, then the resulting handsign will be narrower and slightly taller.  If the thumbs are not bent, and touch each other right at their tips, then the resulting hand-sign will be broader and more triangular...\par
\f3\fs156 y\f1\fs38  y\f0\fs36 : Variant of yoni-mudra, containing \ldblquote planetary\rdblquote  female symbol (Venus sign).\f1\fs38\par
\f3\fs156 z\f1\fs38  z\f0\fs36 : Symbol of male reverence for female sexual power, using \ldblquote planetary\rdblquote  sign.\par
\f3\fs126 @\f0\fs36  \f1\fs38  \f3\fs144 ?\f1\fs38  @\f0\fs36 , \f1\fs38 ?\f0\fs36 : Others.\par
\par
\f2\fs34   Miscellany of various abstract symbols:\f0\fs36\par
\par
The symbols are roughly ordered by degree of symmetry (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9).  The first two designs are a 13-crossing knot and a quasi-Celtic triquetra.  Character \f1 .\f0  is a cryptic form of the three-fold knot (triquetra or trefoil), without visible three-fold symmetry.  Character \f1\'e8\f0  is an altered and symmetrized version of the design on a ca. 5000 BC \ldblquote Linear Pottery culture\rdblquote  vase found in Czechoslovakia, as depicted on page 187 of the book \i Gods and Goddesses of Old Europe\i0  by Marija Gimbutas (1982).\par
 \f3\fs168 (\f1\fs38 (  \f3\fs160 )\f1\fs38 )  \f3\fs168 /\f1\fs38 /  \f3\fs144 <\f1\fs38 <  \f3\fs144 =\f1\fs38 =  \f3\fs144 >\f1\fs38 >  \f3\fs168 [\f1\fs38 [  \f3\fs168\\\f1\fs38\\  \f3\fs144 ]\f1\fs38 ]  \f3\fs180 ^\f1\fs38 ^  \f3\fs160 _\f1\fs38 _  \f3\fs160 `\f1\fs38 `  \f3\fs160\{\f1\fs38\{  \f3\fs160 |\f1\fs38 | \f0\fs36  \f3\fs168\}\f1\fs38\}  \f3\fs168 ~\f1\fs38 ~  \f3\fs168 #\f1\fs38 #  \f3\fs168 $\f1\fs38 $  \f3\fs168 %\f1\fs38 %  \f3\fs168 &\f1\fs38 &  \f3\fs168 !\f1\fs38 !  \f3\fs168 "\f1\fs38 "  \f3\fs168 *\f1\fs38 *  \f3\fs128 .\f1\fs38 .  \f3\fs168 +\f0\fs36  \f1\fs38 +  \f3\fs144 :\f1\fs38 :  \f3\fs144 ;\f1\fs38 ;  \f3\fs144 ,\f1\fs38 ,  \f3\fs144\'e0\f1\fs38\'e0  \f3\fs144\'e1\f1\fs38\'e1  \f3\fs144\'e2\f1\fs38\'e2  \f3\fs144\'e4\f1\fs38\'e4  \f3\fs136\'e5\f1\fs38\'e5  \f3\fs144\'e8\f1\fs38\'e8  \f3\fs136\'e9\f0\fs36  \f1\fs38\'e9  \f3\fs168\'ea\f1\fs38\'ea  \f3\fs168\'eb\f1\fs38\'eb  \f3\fs168\'ec\f1\fs38\'ec  \f3\fs168\'ed\f1\fs38\'ed  \f3\fs168\'ee\f1\fs38\'ee \f3\fs168\'ef\f1\fs38\'ef  \f3\fs144\'f2\f1\fs38\'f2  \f3\fs144\'f3\f1\fs38\'f3  \f3\fs144\'f4\f1\fs38\'f4  \f3\fs144\'f6\f1\fs38\'f6  \f3\fs168\'f9\f1\fs38\'f9  \f3\fs168\'fa\f1\fs38\'fa  \f3\fs168\'fb\f1\fs38\'fb  \f3\fs168\'fc\f1\fs38\'fc\f0\fs36\par
\par
\pard\qc\i -End-\i0\par
\pard\par
}
 